#summary 3rd Email to Byrnie

Movement cards could work...you could also then put on them how and when they can be spent.

My thinkings for normal zombies was 1 hit = kill, so when you play an attack card you get to kill 1-3 zombies (based on the card), or do damage to 1 special (to represent the focusing of a shot, comapred to the general spraying against hordes). I hadn't really factored in the melee attack too much yet, however as a base rule once per turn you can move 2/3 adjacent zombies in your forward arc back one hex (and to stop movement chains zombies can share hexes).

I did have the push as a free action, however thinking about it perhaps it should cost an MP or 2? It's certainly a powerful action, especially if played during overwatch. If you want crescendo events you don't really want players just bunking down in a corner and push/shooting on overwatch every turn...you want them running round like loons :-D

The Director Deck serves 2 purposes;

1) When a new tile is placed, the Director Deck determines initial setup;
   starting spawns
   items (guns, health, explosives etc etc)
   objects/special rules

2) Every turn, a new director deck card is drawn, which determines spawns only

So items can only appear on new tiles. I'm a little worried that the Director Deck could end up very busy, especially if it's going to have differing levels of spawn/item for different player statuses. I did have a variant idea on this.

Director Deck just determines spawns (so is still drawn with new tiles, and every turn)
A Tile Deck (probably needs a better name) is drawn when a new tile is placed (or even go a bit Descent, and the Tile Card shows which tile is to be placed), along with special rules.
Items are "bought" by the player team, by spending special zombie kills, so when a new tile is placed, they can spend x special kills to add (for example) a health pack to the tile, or a weapon spawn. It gives a bit more control back to the players (perhaps too much. I suppose there is an option to add some randomness in here...they buy a "Tile Upgrade" perhaps, which is listed on the Tile Card...of course they have to decide this before the card is drawn...it might be a weapon stash, it may be just some pills)...

Overall volumes of zombies could be determined by player numbers (as a scaling option), or perhaps some mounting number throughout the level (every turn add 1 to the zombie pool...it would stop people dragging their heels). You could then have a player upgrade ability that allows them to remove zombies from the available pool with certain attack cards? (for example, play a "headshot" card on a normal zombie to remove it from the pool).