#summary First ruleset version

<wiki:toc max_depth="4" />

==Ruleset V01==
===(1) Random board game===
place hexagonal tiles (random exit point(s))
How do you deal with splits in the path?
How do you determine length (overall, and per split)?

===(2) Random "features" per tile as exposed, drawn from deck===
Will need feature card sections to support cards (Director Deck)
Also determines spawns for specials

===(3) Player base movement will be set, with modifiers===

    * Adjacent enemy : -1 movement (base move of 6, so surrounded character is by default stationary)
    * Can sacrifice movement points for additional accuracy/damage/range?
    * Move sideways at same speed, backwards at double cost.
    * Do you use a facing rule? Suggest free re-facing before firing, 1mp per turn after first attack card played
    * I cannot see how special zombies would work without facings...
    * 1mp to swap between crouch and standing


===(4) Combat vs normal enemy (the masses)===
Done via attack cards.
Attack card - kills x enemies from a given arc (front to back)

Alternately each "reload" gives a hand of attack cards, which can be played as normal, and a reload action is in lieu of attacks for that go, and discards/redeals hand from gun deck.

How do you run out of ammo? (1 deck of cards, when expired out of ammo, picking up ammo/gun re-shuffles and restarts the deck?)
How many cards in deck/what mixture?
How to deal with pistol/unlimited ammo? (single shot in lieu of card-based attacks?) (single dice roll? twin weilding = 2 dice?)
Melee attack instead of gun attack, push back all zombies in facing

===(5) Combat vs Specials===
Each attack card also has a damage score for vs specials, can be used if LOS and range for weapon
Special damage used in lieu of masses attack. If a special has a player pinned (smoker/hunter) an attack card will unpin (can cause damage to player)

===(6) Specials rules===
a) Smokers - spawn out of LOS, ranged attack to drag/immobilise/damage. Mid HP
b) Hunter - spawn out of LOS, fast move and ranged-to-melee attack, pin and damage. Mid HP
c) Boomer - spawn out of LOS, slow movement, blast attack + blast death (2 hexes), causes zombie spawn rush. Low HP
d) Tank - spawn out of LOS (Director Deck driven only). Punch and throw...high damage. V-High HP
e) Witch - spawn on tile (Director Deck driven only). Trigger and attack. High HP

===(7) Guns===

    * Pistol - hand of 3 (dual = 5). Play per turn = max 1. Dam -1 (min 1). Range 8
    * Shotgun - hand of 3. Play per turn = 1. +2 kills/wider arc. Range 3
    * SMG - hand of 8.Play per turn = all. Range 4
    * Auto-shotgun - Hand of 4. Play per turn = all. +2 kills/wider arc per card. Range 3
    * Sniper rifle - hand of 3. Play per turn = 1. Special = kills all in line of arc. Range unlimited
    * Assault rifle - hand of 8. Play per turn = all. Range 6


===(8) Zombie movement/game phasing/attacking===
players will need the ability to interrupt zombie movement (play attack card at any time)
zombie movement should be fast
Director deck determines how many can move/spawn/speed

    * player go
    *     free movement (do not pay for turns)
    *     attack phase (play attack cards + mp per turn + mp per hex) or Reload (empty hand) or Heal (pickup card, no attacks that round) (Tablets cost x mp, do not stop attacks)
    * Director Deck draw / spawning
    * mass zombie move (play attack card at modifier + mp per turn. No move)
    * mass zombie damage (1 per adjacent, no move/attack here)
    * special zombie move (play attack card at modifier + mp per turn. No move)
    * special zombie attack (no move/attack here)
 

    * Special phase - reveal - if player moves to point where next tile is to be revealed then place and draw director deck. Can happen in free move or attack phase
    * Need card hand rules for Swap Weapon


====Normal Zombie Movement====
number of zombies as determined on the Director Card for turn move towards highest priority target.
Priority 1 - vomited hero (if multiple closest one). Move to adjacent to target
Priority 2 - pipebomb. Move to on top of or adjacent
Priority 3 - hero with most adjacent zombies already (if tie then closest to closest)
Priority 4 - closest hero

Speed - do they move until they reach, or max number of hexes (6-8)?

====Special Zombie Spawn / movement====
Hunter - closest spawn available > 3 hexes. Can move 3 normal + single 5 hex leap (straight line). Free attack on first enemy in line of leap
Smoker - Closest spawn > 6 hexes. Move 4 + tongue attack (LOS, straight line)
Boomer - Closest spawn > 2 hexes. Move 3 + vomit attack (long recharge)
(all have normal adjacent attack in lieu of normal, causing 1 damage point)

Witch - if disturbed immediate free move to startling enemy (max 10 hexes). Spawns with tile
Disturbed if
a) damaged
b) adjacent + 1 other (shoot, full move etc etc)
c) 2 people adjacent

Tank - moves towards closest or weakest. Move of 5. Spawns with tile (side room)
Throw Rock (delayed)
Punch (+knockback)

===(9) Spawn pool===

Each Director Deck specifies a spawn rate. There should be a special zombie spawn pool for each player. Once a special is killed it will be x turns before it respawns. When a Director Card is drawn spawn pools move forward 1, and any available are placed out of LOS (either generic "close as possible" rules, or as per OL decision)

    * New Area spawns may specify either a Witch or Tank. There will be a final section where tanks appear at set intervals (here tanks would effectively be the game timer). DD also determines horde rushes, either as part of a new area, or as a spawn. DD therefore needs the following info
    * New area description (tiles, items etc etc)
    * Special spawn increment
    * Exceptional spawns (horde, tank, witch...limited per deck cycle). These would also apply to new areas
    * Normal Zombie move volumes


Some new areas should be set holdout events (such as a gun turret + phased spawns).

===(10) Items available===

    * Healing Pack - 1 per player. Instead of all attacks may heal (or heal adjacent). Any damage dealt stops heal.
    * Pills - 1 per player. Instead of moving 2 spaces may take
    * Explosives - 1 per player. Need to re-equip to it (2 mp) and throw (free action in straight line from model)
    * Carried Item - cannot have weapon. 1mp to pick up, free action to throw in straight line
    * weapons - 2mp to pick up, free redraw of cards
    * (2nd pistol) - draw +2 cards first time.


===(11) Campaign Basics===

Ways to advance players
Hand size per gun (increased magazine)
Increased health
Increased movement


Ways to advance zombies
Shorter respawn counters
more damage per specials
+mob movement
+volumes spawn
Reduce pickups

There should be a flag on the Director Deck to compare player state and modify values based on that therein.
Player state =
Combined health
Combined pickups (value per, or per card?)

Zombie score = no of player deaths



