#summary Thoughts on how to implement special zombies
<wiki:toc max_depth="4" />

= Introduction =
Ideas on how to implement Special Zombies into the core ruleset.
The special zombies should provide the actual challenge of the game, and should be tough enough to make the players react and co-ordinate as a team to overcome them. In the game Left4Dead their attack mechanisms re-inforced the co-operative gameplay, by forcing players to resuce their team-mates

=Challenges=
==Spawning==
===The Spawn Track===
Use a [SpawnTrack Spawn Track] to time their entry. This contorls both the maximum number of Specials appearing at one time (limited by the number of spawn tracks in use), and also ensures a peak/trough challenge setting.

Currently I see Hunter / Smoker / Boomer type specials using this. There may need to be a spawning queue to determine the next one to be moved to the spawn tracks.

===Would this work for Tanks / Witches?===
Probably not. I see these working better if linked to specific tile (especially the witch, who should appear on tiles, and so should be an item on the [TileDeck Tile Deck] cards.

The tank is a little trickier. For the normal game you want them to appear infrequently (1-2 times per level), however during crescendo events/finales you would want them on a more time-based system. Possibly a longer spawn track for them, or advancement based on the types of tile being drawn (a marker on the [TileDeck Tile Deck] cards ala BSG Jump markers? or the [DirectorDeck Director Deck]...so if a team is doing really well, advance the Tank spawn? )

===Spawn Positioning===
Currently using the normal zombie spawn rules (random position on tile, tile determined by [DirectorDeck Director Deck] card in combination with [PlayerState Player State]. 

Specific types of Special would benefit from other locations...for example ranged-type attacks (Smokers) would be better off beind the team, while Boomers and Hunters would want to be closer. There is a possibility that Specials have their own spawning rules...

==Special Powers==
===Sub-Dividing the Specials===
In Left4Dead there are effectively 2 types of Special.
 * Boomers, Hunters and Smokers are always available
 * Tanks are brought out for special events
 * Witches are more of an obstacle, and not "intelligent" as such

(OK, that's 3 types, however I consider Tanks and Wiches to be non-standard Specials).

===Spawning and Special Powers===
To go through the Standard Specials first, their spawn rules could be linked to their power, ala;
 * Smoker. Spawns on the tile behind the player furthest back. Roll a random hex to appear (numbers on tiles)
 * Hunter. Spawns on same tile as current Highest Priority player. Roll a random hex to appear.
 * Boomer. Spawns on same tile as furthest forward player. Rolls a random hex to appear.

This remains fairly simple, and similar in line to normal zombie spawning, while giving the specials a better opportunity of using their powers correctly.

Witches would have to spawn as a new tile is placed, however that works pretty nicely. She could perhaps have a spawn-tracker that is incremented as a new tile is placed?

Tanks should spawn ahead of, or behind the team, to give them some warning. I quite like the idea of them punching through a wall (which marries in with the idea of "cupboard" board sections, which are currently in my mind, but not in the rules).

===Special Powers===
====Smoker====
 * Move 4 (no facing)
 * Range Attack - LOS (unlimited hexes) (recharge?)
 * Melee Attack to adjacent/pinned
 * Post range attack move pinned player _x_ hexes towards Smoker each turn (fast)
 * 3-5 wounds

Move Rules - Move to first place with LOS on rear-most player. Range attack and pin.
----
====Hunter====
 * move 6 + leap (no facing)
 * Leap +4 hexes in straight line
 * Melee attack to adjacent/pinned
 * 3-5 wounds

Move Rules - Attack Highest Priority player
(would they be better off ganking the rearmost as well?)
----
====Boomer====
 * Move 3 (no facing)
 * Range attack - arc to 3 hexes (long recharge)
 * increases Priority / random fire arc OR random card draw
 * increase normal spawning
 * 2-3 Wounds
 * Explode when killed (adjacent to adjacent +1 as per Ranged attack)

Move Rules - Move to attack range of closest player and goop, then move into adjacent range and melee.
----
====Tank====
 * Move 5 (no facing)
 * Range Attack - range 8 to highest priority target
 * Melee Attack to adjacent + knockback
 * 10-15 wounds
 * Immune to Player melee knockback

Move Rules - head towards highest priority player and melee, range if out of reach.
----
====Witch====
 * Move 0 / 10 (no facing)
 * Melee only - immediate knockdown
 * 8-10 wounds
 * Stationary until disturbed

Move Rules - Stationary until disturbed;
 # In area of Friendly Fire
 # Takes damage in player turn
 # Attack card played while adjacent
 # Adjacent Players for 2 turns

...then move towards Triggering player, melee when in range.
----