#summary Designing the weapon stats and types
<wiki:toc max_depth="4" />

= Required Info =
 # Name of Weapon
 # Max Ammo
 # Clip Size
 # Rate of Fire
 # Range
 # Damage Modifier
 # Exception Rules

==Name of Weapon==
Initially the following weapons will be developed
 * pistol
 * dual pistols
 * SMG
 * pump action shotgun
 * sniper rifle
 * assault rifle
 * auto-shotgun
 * stationary machine gun

==Max Ammo==
This will be the size of the deck of [AttackDeck Attack Cards] that the gun comes with when picked up/restocked with ammo. This should be factored by the clip size, multiplied by the number of times the gun can be reloaded.

==Clip Size==
This is the maximum number of [AttackDeck Attack Cards] the player may have in hand when using the weapon, and the number of cards the hand is refreshed to when reloading

==Rate of Fire==
This is how many [AttackDeck Attack Cards] the player may play in a singe turn from his hand.

==Range==
This is the maximum range that damage may be caused from the gun

==Damage Modifier==
This is a modifier to each [AttackDeck Attack Card] played when using the weapon, down to a minimum of 1. So if a player uses a weapon with a -1 damage modifier, and plays a 1-damage [AttackDeck Attack Card] then 1 point of damage is still scored.

==Exception Rules==
Some weapons will have specific rules to that weapon, which change normal rules. For example;
 * Shotguns can be reloaded using movement points
 * Sniper rifle causes piercing damageto zombies behind
 * shotguns have a larger fire arc
 * pistols do not run out of ammo

=Translating Game Stats to cards=
==Direct Translation==
Using [Left4Dead#Weapon_Statistics Left4Dead's gun statistics] as an initial attempt to determine [AttackDeck Number of Attack Cards] and Hand Size. Assumptions are;
 * Minimum hand size of 3
 * Minimum play each turn of 1
 * Take M16 Damage as "base" (it's in the middle)

|| *Weapon* || *Game Damage* || *Game ROF* || *Game Clip* || *Card Clip* || *Card Play* || *Damage Mod* ||
||Pistol||22||300rpm||8||3||4||-1||
||Uzi||15||1000rpm||50||18||14||-2||
||M16||31||700rpm||50||18||10||0||
||Rifle||90||225rpm||15||5||3||+3||
||Pump Shotgun||~140||69rpm||8||3||1||+5||
||Auto Shotgun||~168||200rpm||10||4||3||+6||

Hand size is too big (Ideally would prefer to keep it down to about 10 max). It's the vast discrepancy between the shotgun and the uzi (and to a lesser extent the M16) that causes the issue...

The damage modifiers are equally massive (shotguns shot out multiple pellets, so can cause damage over a bigger area).

==Option 1==

 # Halve "Card Play"
 # Halve "Card Clip" for auto-weapons (M16 / Uzi)
 # +1 damage for uzi and M16
 # Increase shotgun fire-arc for target selection
 # Halve shotgun damage
 # +1 on rifle, but all in a line per card

Added the average and max damage (min damage is always 0), based on [AttackDeck01 Attack Deck version 1].
Average damage per played card is 1.75 +- gun damage.

|| *Weapon* || *Total Cards* || *Card Clip* || *Card Play* || *Damage Mod* || *Special* || *Av. Damage* || *Max Damage* || *Av. DOT* || *DOT Rounds* ||
||Pistol||x||3||2||-1||Infinite reloads||2.25||4||1.125||x||
||Uzi||90||9||7||-1||None||7.875||14||3.375||30||
||M16||72||9||5||+1||None||13.75||20||6.41||24||
||Rifle||65||5||3||+4||All kills in a line||17.25||21||9.58||39||
||Pump Shotgun||51||3||1||+2||large fire-arc||3.75||5||2.81||68||
||Auto Shotgun||55||4||3||+3||large fire arc||14.25||18||6.33||33||

I feel the uzi is too high, and the shotgun a little weak. The +per card is a little too high an impact, given the base low average of the cards (1.75). Options to address this are;
 # Increase card values (range 1-4 + miss, move average to 2)
 # Have a flat damage bonus ( which may favour low fire-rate weapons more)
 # Have some kind of scalable damage bonus (as more cards are played make damage value less)

Just realised I didn't take into account the fact that 1-value cards would not be reduced by the negative weapon values. This would increase average damage of the pistols and uzi, but would not affect the shotgun. Corrected table accordingly.

Also added Damage Over Time (DOT) to attempt to take into account reload frequency. thsi was calculated by;
Average Fire using all cards until clip empty, then 1 round of reload / total number of rounds. This should equate to the average number of zombies a player can expect to kill with a given weapon given an infinite supply of suitable targets (in arc, in range etc etc).
===Further Thoughts on Option 1===
_(this is the result of a swimming session...you can think about a lot when swimming)_
The numbers shown here for "average damage", "max damage" and "Av.DOT" are all based on the maximum number of cards being played per turn...

...of course players would be idots to do that, and will only play the required cards needed to clear out the zombies. Also, a player outputting the maximum damage is going to be out of ammo _very_ quickly.

I have added the "total cards" column, to indicate the total amount of cards that can be played through a weapon without restocking. At the end is a new column "DOT rounds", which indicates how many round the Av. DOT could be maintained...

Tose numbers are far too large, so will address this in Option 2 below.

==Option 2==

 * reduce total ammo access (half)
 * double reload times (2 turns) (in the game full-auto times and reload times are comparable)
  * This will impact DOT's, as well as adding (ammo reload cycles) rounds to DOT rounds

|| *Weapon* || *Total Cards* || *Card Clip* || *Card Play* || *Damage Mod* || *Special* || *Av. Damage* || *Max Damage* || *Av. DOT* || *DOT Rounds* ||
||Pistol||x||3||2||-1||Infinite reloads||2.25||4||0.843||x||
||Uzi||45||9||7||-1||None||7.875||14||2.531||20||
||M16||36||9||5||+1||None||13.75||20||6.18||16||
||Rifle||32||5||3||+4||All kills in a line||17.25||21||7.187||24||
||Pump Shotgun||25||3||1||+2||large fire-arc||3.75||5||2.25||44||
||Auto Shotgun||27||4||3||+3||large fire arc||14.25||18||4.75||25||

===Team Damage Output===
Need to have some rough idea of the amount of damage a team can output at the 2 stages of the game;
 # basic weapons (uzi, pump-shot, pistol)
 # advanced weapons (M16, Rifle, Auto-shotgun)
This should then feed into the [DirectorDeck Director Deck] composition, to ensure that enough zombies (and spikes/troughs of them) are generated to give pressure, while keeping the game possible and close...

====Basic Weapons====
Average damage is 2.39 irrespective of weapon. 4 players could therefore kill 9-10 zombies per turn while ammo lasts (20 rounds for Uzi, 44 for shotgun).

====Advanced Weapons====
Average damage is 6 irrepsective of weapons. 4 players could therefore kill 24 zombies per turn while ammo lasts (16 rounds for M16, upto 25 for the Auto-shotgun).

2-3 turns of "average kill" should provide pressure due to the reload-cycles of each weapon. In turn 1-2 of the reload cycle kills will be high, while as weapons hit reload points pressure will mount.

==Option 3==
_this is currently a branch from Option 1, not a follow-up to Option 2_

 # use [AttackDeck02 Attack deck Version 2]
 * Larger variance of cards
 * Av. damage = 2 per card
 * Less miss cards
 * 5 x "4" value cards (uzi cannot play all)

|| *Weapon* || *Card Clip* || *Card Play* || *Damage Mod* || *Special* || *Av. Damage* || *Max Damage* || *Av. DOT* ||
||Pistol||3||2||-1||Infinite reloads||2.6||6||1.3||
||Uzi||9||7||-1||None||9.1||19||3.9||
||M16||9||5||+1||None||15||25||9||
||Rifle||5||3||+4||All kills in a line||18||24||10||
||Pump Shotgun||3||1||+2||large fire-arc||4||6||3||
||Auto Shotgun||4||3||+3||large fire arc||15||21||6.66||

Note an increase in maximums, though with only 5 max damage cards available much more unlightly to come by.